NOTICES FOR USERS UPGRADING FROM 3.0 TO 3.1

The machinery to support conversion between the database's textual format and
the client's native types are now in a separate header, pqxx/strconv.
If your program fails to compile, try adding an include statement to include
this new header.

In binarystring objects, the results of the str() function are no longer cached
inside the object.  This means that calling this function repeatedly will be a
lot slower (but keeping and caching the result yourself could be a lot faster)
than it was in previous versions.  It also means that subsequent invocations
will return different string objects, not references to the same one.


NOTICES FOR USERS UPGRADING FROM 2.x TO 3.x

All items marked as deprecated in the 2.x API have been removed.

The Cursor and CachedResult classes are gone.  A new class "stateless_cursor"
offers the functionality of Cursor combined with CachedResult's ease of use.
The only thing still missing is that stateless_cursor does not do any
client-side caching.

The sql_base class is still there, and sql_cursor offers low-level cursor access
for those who want to get close to the metal.  The cursor stream API remains
unchanged.


NOTICES FOR USERS UPGRADING FROM 2.0 AND 2.1 VERSIONS TO 2.2.0 OR LATER

The default installation location has changed from /usr/local/pqxx to /usr/local
which should make it easier to run programs linked to libpqxx.  If you upgrade,
be sure to remove your old /usr/local/pqxx is removed, or at least remove it
from your header and library paths when compiling your libpqxx programs.

The configure script no longer requires the --with-postgres options, nor does it
recognize them.  Instead, it finds the PostgreSQL headers and libraries by
running Postgres' pg_config script.  This should have been installed in the
binaries directory of your PostgreSQL installation; make sure it's in your
command path before running the libpqxx configure script.


IMPORTANT NOTICE FOR USERS UPGRADING TO 1.9.0 OR LATER FROM OLDER VERSIONS

Version 1.9.0 marks a radical change in the library, preparatory to the 2.0.0
release2003.  These may require changes in your code; see the NEWS file for
quick overview of the changes.  Most of these are also relevant for users
upgrading from 1.x to 2.x versions of the library.

Not all the changes will be of immediate importance to you; where possible,
typedefs have been provided to maintain backwards compatibility.  In some cases
however, your existing code may fail to compile, or changes may be needed to
stay compatible with future versions of libpqxx.


1. The Great Renaming

Practically all classes have been renamed to fully lower-case names.  This was
requested by several users, and should help stylistic integration with the C++
Standard Library.

Typedefs have been provided where necessary, so no immediate changes in your
code are needed on that score (although eventually of course the typedefs will
be phased out); however, don't be surprised if class names are spelled
differently in the documentation or in compiler messages than you're used to.


2. The Transformed Transaction Taxonomy (TTT)

The old Transaction hierarchy has been transformed to accomodate transaction
isolation levels as compile-time type properties.  Also, there is now a separate
dbtransaction base class to indicate that a subclass opens a real transaction on
the backend.  As you may have guessed, nontransaction is the only type of
transaction implementation that isn't derived from dbtransaction.  The new root
of the inheritance tree is transaction_base.

Isolation levels are modeled as template arguments to the transaction types that
support them, i.e. those classes derived from dbtransaction.  This makes it easy
to adapt if the set of isolation levels implemented by the underlying database
should ever change.

To limit the amount of inlined code, these newly templatized classes (i.e.
transaction and robusttransaction) are not derived directly from dbtransaction.
Instead, their implementations are mostly contained in basic_transaction and
basic_robusttransaction respectively.  The template classes inherit their
implementations from these classes and only add the minimal changes required to
set their isolation levels.  To express that a function requires a
robusttransaction of any isolation level, for instance, make its parameter
refer to a basic_robusttransaction.

The database's default isolation level is "read committed," which means that a
transaction will read newly changed values as they become available from other
transactions as they commit.  PostgreSQL also implements "serializable," which
completely isolates each transaction from seeing changes made by other
transactions while it is active.  The drawback of the serializable level is that
the database may occasionally need to abort the transaction because its
"snapshot" view of the database has become impossible to maintain.  Using
libpqxx transactors will isolate you from this concern.

The old Transaction name is now typedef'ed to mean transaction<read_committed>;
to get a serializable one, declare a transaction<serializable>.  The same goes
for robusttransaction.

To use the default isolation level, just write transaction<> (or, naturally,
robusttransaction<>).  This will use the default template parameter, which is
read_committed.  For transaction<>, which you'll usually want to use, there is
also a convenience typedef called "work."

Isolation levels are defined in the new header file pqxx/isolation.h.


3. If you use Cursor or CachedResult...

These classes have contained a serious bug for some time now, which is related
to the transaction isolation levels described above.  Even if you don't want to
upgrade right away, please try to avoid the "absolute positioning" feature of
Cursor, and avoid CachedResult altogether.  Either will be safe if you only
read your result set once, in a strict forward-only manner, but please consider
upgrading libpqxx.  Newer version ensure that your code will not build until you
fix the problem.

The problem is this: due to the database's default transaction isolation level
of "read committed," it is possible for another transaction to modify the
contents of your query's result set as you access them.  The Cursor class in
recent versions of libpqxx knew how to keep track of their absolute position to
let you scroll directly to a given row, or to determine the size of the result
set.  If another transaction modifies the rows you're interested in, however,
that may affect the number of rows in your result set and confuse your cursor
object's positioning logic.  The CachedResult class was built on top of Cursor's
absolute positioning functionality, and so has the same problem.

TTT to the rescue.  The new transaction hierarchy allows the constructors for
cursor and cachedresult to demand that they be passed a transaction with
isolation level "serializable."  Failure to do so will yield a compile-time or
link-time error for the symbol error_permitted_isolation_level().

If you want to continue using cursors and cachedresults the way you were used
to, you'll need to replace the relevant transactions with ones declared as
serializable: transaction<serializable> or robusttransaction<serializable>.
This may require some restructuring or templatization of your program in some
cases, because the constructors for cursor and cachedresult must be able to see
the correct transaction isolation level at compile time, but I hope you'll agree
it was the only solution that was both safe and efficient.

The offending functionality will be spliced out of the cursor class; in fact,
the class may disappear altogether and be replaced by a set of iterator-based
interfaces; random-access iterators will only be available in serializable
transactions, and some optimizations will be possible for forward-only
iterators.  The difference between updateable and read-only cursors may be
reflected as a distinction between regular iterators and const_iterators.


4. If you use Transactors

The old way of setting a transaction type as your transactor's "quality of
service," by overriding the nested typedef for "argument_type," has been
deprecated.  It will still work as far as I can make out, but may at some point
in the future development of libpqxx fail to do what you expect.  There will be
no compile-time warning of this, so please inspect your transactors manually.

The new way to set a transactor's quality of service is to pass the desired
transaction type as a template argument.  The old Transactor name is defined to
mean "transactor<>", maintaining the old default of Transaction (which is now
really a transaction<read_committed>).

To replace this with, say, a nontransaction write:

  class UnsafeTransactor : public transactor<nontransaction>

For a super-robust, highly reliable transactor, write:

  class SafeTransactor : public transactor<robusttransactor<serializable> >

Note the space between the two closing angled-brackets: "> >" instead of merely
">>".  This is due to an ambiguity in the C++ syntax.  Without the whitespace,
the two consecutive larger-than signs would be parsed as a >> (shift-right)
operator.


